---
layout: post
title: NotGeorge
date: '2004-06-25T04:36:17+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47880509043/notgeorge
---
<p>I have a beer belly. A little one. I&rsquo;ve always had it, as long as I can remember. Generally I&rsquo;m an average height, fairly skinny guy, but with a paunch. It&rsquo;s got a little bigger recently, since I had my bike stolen. I&rsquo;d stopped swimming and then the bike went and I haven&rsquo;t been getting out a whole lot. Combine this with the fact that I eat well and you have paunch. Note, the title of this post is a reference to my flatmates paunch, which has been named. I prefer not to name mine. George is bigger, but then we have different body types anyway.</p>
<p>Anyway I&rsquo;m a touch narcissistic, so I thought it would be nice to burn that little ridge away. The web is out there waiting, so I searched it for <a href="http://www.google.com/search?q=exercises+burn+abdominal+fat&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;oe=UTF-8">exercises burn abdominal fat</a>. That was a good search, instead of the TRY TH3 AT|&lt;1NSS DIET N0W ads I was expecting, I got some handy stuff.</p>
<p>It&rsquo;s not possible to point at the fat and say &ldquo;I&rsquo;M GONNA DO LIKE 10,000 SIT-UPS AND KICK YOUR ASS!&rdquo; This I could probably have guessed. My favourite quote comes from <a href="http://www.fatlosstips.com/abs.html">How to reveal your six pack</a> (which I have no intention of doing): &ldquo;Abs are not made in the gym, they&rsquo;re made in the kitchen.&rdquo; Well, fuck that then, I have no intention of stopping eating like a king. Now, where are those sausages.</p>
<p>I do actually have an OK diet. My girlfriend takes care of that. I eat meat quite a lot. I don&rsquo;t really know the first thing about food groups and stuff, so I have no idea what to eat when told to get most of my dietary fat from essential fatty acids. I could probably move my diet around a bit, though I would find it hard to adopt any form of regime. I like to try out new food and I&rsquo;m not really that bothered about the tubbyness to actually work at something.</p>
<p>What I do need to do is more regular exercise. When I had my bike I was riding most days. I would ride for about an hour or so, mostly at a steady clip, but with occasional sprint (still a 15 year old at heart) and at least 15 minutes of slow meandering. I miss my bike and I plan to buy a new one pretty soon. Maybe even tomorrow.</p>
<p>It&rsquo;s quite a surprise that I&rsquo;ve noticed the tub getting bigger, I&rsquo;d never really monitored it that closely. It definitely struck me a couple of times in the last week that it wasn&rsquo;t flattening out so much after meals any more. It&rsquo;s not big, but it is fairly well-defined, one might say protuberant.</p>
<p>I suspect the lack of exercise is the critical factor. I&rsquo;m eating my normal diet. I haven&rsquo;t actually had a drink this week, although I did drink a fair bit last week. I&rsquo;m happy to exercise really. I&rsquo;m more interested in maintaining the general good operation of my cardiovascular system than getting a rock hard six pack for the beach. Although, when I think about it, I&rsquo;d probably be much happier dying suddenly from a heart attack than losing my mind over forty years. Although I guess you don&rsquo;t actually die that quickly, your body must start getting really crap at stuff long before that.</p>
