---
layout: post
title: Partay!
date: '2003-12-09T04:39:40+00:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47880565016/partay
---
<p>The Superflat party was a success IMHO. It was quite a lot of work and fairly tiring, but I had a really good time and I met some cool new people as well. Louise and I spent a good chunk of Saturday evening tidying up in preparation and then another chunk of Sunday tidying up the aftermath. Hell, the floor needed washing anyway.</p>
<p>Mat, Ben and Greg came down from Norwich and arrived at about seven, just as we finished getting ready. We promptly took Mat to the supermarket and left Greg and Ben in charge of the venue. We bought a stack of booze and headed back, to find that the passive man had turned up in our absence, with a dangerous looking bottle of Tequila in tow. After that people started turning up in dribs over the hours. Adam played a mix of tunes to kick things off, including some tracks from his prize, the <em>Italian Job</em> soundtrack. It was a really good warm up set, good natured and fun. Ben played some hip hop, which was also really enjoyable. Then I played tongue-in-cheek electroclash, which went down OK I think. We let Adam play more and then Tom and I played all of our jungle classics (well favourites anyway).</p>
<p>So that was the party in music, and that was much of it anyway for me. Playing two sets you kind of miss things. JC and a whole bunch of people turned up just as things were getting a touch quieter and revived everything nicely. I didn&rsquo;t know most of them either, so it was cool to talk to new people. Ted&rsquo;s friend Brian and his American chums who were around earlier were cool to talk to and I think we&rsquo;re going to try and find them again.</p>
<p>At it&rsquo;s peak it was a pretty good party. It wasn&rsquo;t a student party like we used to have. No dancing, practically no drugs, better booze and less passing out, but also fewer people. I made everyone take their shoes off as well! The end part was funny though. The last few of us hung around until dawn. They did lines off the coffee table, I sat and played Mario Kart and completed it on 100cc, thus opening up the special cup. I kept offering the controller around, but nobody took it off me. Just as well, I was in the zone. The next day the general state of fried brain lead me to actually hallucinate Mario Kart whilst in the shower.</p>
<p>The next day was obviously a total write off. I was really shaky for some reason. We managed to get things cleaned up, again with Charlie&rsquo;s help, and when we sorted it all out we&rsquo;d made a pretty good profit in booze form.</p>
<p>Hooray for parties, but it&rsquo;ll be a while until we have another I think. I have only good feelings from it, but it was exhausting.</p>
