---
layout: post
title: phpCollab
date: '2004-03-05T03:36:55+00:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47880548192/phpcollab
---
<p>Working with a partner who is a hundred or so miles away is a new one on me. So far it&rsquo;s going well. We&rsquo;ve been officially a team for about a month and he&rsquo;s picking knowledge up pretty damn quickly. This week we&rsquo;ve been let down by general inertia on the part of one of my clients, by which I mean we&rsquo;ve both kind of been sat on our arses, but that&rsquo;s no biggy. Next week should be fun though.</p>
<p>One of the big problems I have with my working methods is a failing in my ability to estimate task durations. It&rsquo;s something I&rsquo;ve known about forever, and it&rsquo;s something that I&rsquo;ve tried to fix before. I&rsquo;ve certainly got better at it but I&rsquo;m still not perfect. The fundamental problem is that I still believe I can just roll my eyes upwards and pluck a figure out of the air. The amount of times I do this is ridiculous. Even for whole projects sometimes. <em>This does not work</em>.</p>
<p>Previously it was a problem, but I got around it by working at the weekends. Working at the weekends is a bind but I got around it by slacking at other times and also by careful management of expectations. But now it&rsquo;s not just me that suffers when I make inaccurate estimates, it&rsquo;s Greg too. It&rsquo;s not fair for me to start costing him money.</p>
<p><a href="http://www.phpcollab.com/">phpCollab</a> is a web-based project management system which I hope will the solution to this problem and ease the process of being a virtual team. It&rsquo;s based on Macromedia Sitespring, which is now dead. I evaluated Sitespring whilst working at Soup, but didn&rsquo;t really get it. Now I know a fuckload more about projects and business and all that and I really understand how useful this kind of tool would be. For me and Greg it&rsquo;s great, for a bigger organisation of more people I can see it would be practically indispensable.</p>
<p>phpCollab has projects and tasks and a calendar and lots of other stuff, but it&rsquo;s not a huge product. It&rsquo;s simple and straightforward and provides tools for making sure I&rsquo;ve thought things through. For example, when I start a task I can enter my estimate for the task duration. I can then enter the actual time at the end and compare the two. I can compare the two across lots of tasks and projects as well, to get a handle on my slippage. At the moment I know the difference between my estimates and the actual time taken, but I have yet to aggregate that data into a useful report. phpCollab will do that.</p>
<p>phpCollab does lack a Wiki, which I think is a fantastically useful tool, simply because it&rsquo;s all things to all men. You can easily apply the power of hypertext to any structure or document. A user on the phpCollab message board had already had a go at hacking <a href="http://tavi.sourceforge.net/">Wikki Tikki Tavi</a> in as a phpCollab module, so I downloaded his release. I made a few more customisations just to make the Wiki fit visually with the rest of phpCollab and bang we&rsquo;re ready to go.</p>
<p>It&rsquo;s nice to have the combination of structured sections and a freeform melting pot, but I&rsquo;d like the two to integrate and borrow from each other a bit more. I&rsquo;d like to be able to use Wiki like formatting and linking in the rest of phpCollab. E.g. if I describe a project it would be nice to able to make a link to a previous project that was similar. phpCollab has envisaged the need for some of the links I would make, allowing notes, simple discussions and file uploads, but it can never codify them all. Neither should it, it would become bloated and much harder to use. A Wiki syntax for blocks of text (denoted by a Wikitext OK signifier of some kind) would allow people to build subtly on top of the current framework. This would also provide a way for the phpCollab developers to  discover useful new features - people would already be using some kind of Wiki-based hack solution.</p>
<p>The hacking I did last night to integrate the Tavi Wiki was fun. I&rsquo;ve often wanted to contribute to an open source project, but I&rsquo;m no C hacker. I do know my PHP however, and I feel I&rsquo;ve got something to offer here. I&rsquo;d like to turn this into a proper project, to integrate a Wiki. I&rsquo;ve just noticed that a <a href="http://">Wikitext module</a> has appeared in <a href="http://">PEAR</a> as well, although I think Tavi is a fine code base to integrate. I&rsquo;m not sure if I&rsquo;ll do anything though, as I tend to go off the boil on things pretty quickly and I also have other projects that I would very, very much like to work on - the new Hype code base for example.</p>
