---
layout: post
title: Some more basic synthesis
date: '2003-11-05T07:13:31+00:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47972954963/some-more-basic-synthesis
---
<p>BTW, I&rsquo;m hanging out in Norwich with the Thickthorn crew at the moment. Well, not now. They&rsquo;re all asleep. But during the day. I&rsquo;m actually heading back to da smoke tomorrow to get back into the work routine. I came up to begin work on a new project which is design and build of a smallish site (about 150 pages). Got to get feedback on the design. If all goes well, I&rsquo;m outta here. Otherwise, um, I&rsquo;m not sure. It&rsquo;s been nice hanging around here again though, playing F-Zero GX and Soul Caliber II. Ian&rsquo;s been up as well and it was good to see him again.</p>
<p>I got talking to Martin today and told him about the cool things I&rsquo;d seen with computers and music at Dorkbot and how this had inspired me to start coding sound stuff. He liked my idea, which basically revolves around building a synthesis machine that has loads of STK&rsquo;s functionality compiled in and then allowing other systems to control it via <a href="http://ccrma-www.stanford.edu/software/stk/skini.html#skini">SKINI</a> messages. One system would be a graphical frontend built with SDL. Others could be built in any kind of programming language as SKINI is just text sent down a TCP socket. I forsee there being a command line interface of some kind. I also like SuperCollider&rsquo;s idea of being able to create objects within the synth server. Those objects could be created visually and then tweaked algorithmically using a Python program for example. Synchronisation is going to be an interesting problem to solve.</p>
<p>This evening I got into doing some actual coding. I copied out the &ldquo;<a href="http://ccrma-www.stanford.edu/software/stk/hello.html#hello">Hello, Sine!</a>&rdquo; STK example and built it on the command line. Then I built the real time version that played the sound (via CoreAudio on OS X) rather than dumping it to a WAV file. Then I integrated that code into my SDLAudioTest project from my last experiments. This is a SDL/Cocoa shell app that has a window (currently empty) and can make noises.</p>
<p>STK uses a sample for your basic sine wave, which makes sense. Why calculate the data each time when you can store the thing? It&rsquo;s tiny anyway. Mac OS X applications are a directory structure and there&rsquo;s a place to put resources such as sound files. Once I brought the file into my project, I had to work out how to use the CoreFoundation functions to get a filename string of the location of that file. Now that I&rsquo;ve done that the thing is nicely self-contained.</p>
<p>Next stop is a basic piano keyboard interface in the window.</p>
