---
layout: post
title: Teeth, Muscles, Shares
date: '2003-04-26T17:24:38+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47973250112/teeth-muscles-shares
---
<h2>Teeth</h2>
<p>I went to the <a href="http://www.perfectsmile-dental.com/">shiny dentist</a>. They rang me yesterday morning, having got my number from 1471 (the UK&rsquo;s &ldquo;who rang me?&rdquo; number) and asked what I had been calling about. I said I&rsquo;d like to make an appointment and they gave me one at 11:30 yesterday, which was about two hours after the conversation. Impressed, I cancelled my other appointment.</p>
<p>I was a bit nervous, I hadn&rsquo;t been to the dentist for five years and I was worried that I might need loads of work. But no! My teeth are absolutely fine! They&rsquo;re stained yes, but I did smoke for five years, so that&rsquo;s not so surprising. Plus I had already noticed this. Then he gave me a clean and a polish. This was remarkably dentist-like, I can see why people are afraid. He had a protective visor and basically drilled the tartar off my teeth with a very high pitched motorised thingy. Same with the polish, except at lower speed and with wierd blue gunk. It was quite intimidating and went on for a good five minutes. During which I just lay there with my mouth open, trying not to get my tongue in the way.</p>
<p>Afterwards though my teeth are quite a bit whiter. The bottom front ones tingle a bit from being exposed once more at the back and I can&rsquo;t stop feeling them with my tongue.</p>

<h2>Muscles</h2>
<p>Later on yesterday I decided to get to the swimming pool as well. It&rsquo;s only a ten minute walk away, if that. The pool is really new. It was built in a joint venture by the council and a health club group. There&rsquo;s a baby pool and a main pool for the public and a whole load of gym stuff and another pool for club members. It&rsquo;s a very expensive club, but the pool is only £2.95. Given that everything else in Fulham is eight quid or more, this was a relief.</p>
<p>The changing rooms were unisex, which threw me at first. I walked in, a fully clothed man, to see women in swimsuits and towels. I promptly walked out again and asked where the men&rsquo;s where. In fact all the actual changing areas are cubicles and just the lockers are shared. The pool itself was new and shiny and not too full, which was a relief. When I swim I have to leave my glasses behind. I am pretty short sighted. This has two effects, 1. I can&rsquo;t read signs telling me that on no account should I do what I&rsquo;m doing and, 2. I feel nervous, as you would if you didn&rsquo;t have complete control of all your senses and were in a new environment.</p>
<p>When I started swimming I found that the pool had order. Three swimming lanes, slow, medium and fast, and a messing about bit for kids and slackers. I tried the fast lane and did crawl, swimming pretty quickly for three lengths. I almost died. I discovered that I have no upper body strength and that my lungs and heart needed gentler treatment. To be fair I had just eaten before leaving the house, which was a bad idea, all my blood was still diverted to my digestive system and my heart had to work extra hard to keep me going. After a rest, I spent the next hour pootling up and down the slow lane doing breast stroke.</p>
<p>Afterwards I stank of Chlorine and had to shower. My body didn&rsquo;t hurt too much (not like after the running). My shoulders are a bit tense today, but that&rsquo;s about it. I will be going again.</p>
<h2>Shares</h2>
<p>Today I got a call from my Dad. My Dad is the MD of a small company he started about 15 years ago. They make database software for hospitals. Things have been fairly hard in that time, he&rsquo;s never become rich, but he&rsquo;s not lost the company either and it has paid his salary for all that time. Recently he&rsquo;s not enjoying it very much and has been talking about moving on. So it was a pleasant surprise to hear today that a much larger company has made an offer to buy his company.</p>
<p>It&rsquo;s a serious offer. Apparently the valuation is spot on and also they want to complete the transaction fairly quickly. I am a shareholder in my Dad&rsquo;s company. When it was founded, he gave 1,000 shares each to me, my two sisters and other family members. He was actually phoning me because as a shareholder I have to be informed and I have to sign some stuff. My shares will be moderately valuable if all goes well, but I&rsquo;m more happy for him. He&rsquo;s worked very hard to keep the company working and now it&rsquo;s got to the point of success, where he can claim back his effort. It&rsquo;s strange that the measure of success should be the ability to get out and I think he&rsquo;s sad to see the end on one level. Still, he&rsquo;s fifty now and it sounds like this path suits the way his life is going very well. Although he will be an employee of the purchasing company for a while, in a year&rsquo;s time he will be free to do whatever he wants.</p>
