---
layout: post
title: Craxy World of Noon
date: '2002-12-13T06:53:26+00:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47973372583/craxy-world-of-noon
---
<p>Yesterday I went for an interview at a company called <a href="http://www.lshift.net">LShift</a>. They are a mighty cool company and I really, really want to work there. They do a lot more interesting stuff than all the other companies I&rsquo;ve visited and they have a suitably impressive client list.</p>
<p>The interview was just an informal chat, beer included. The MD, Andy Wilson, told me about the company and it&rsquo;s structure and philosophy. Everything he said made me want to work there even more. The only drawback is that it&rsquo;s Old Street, so not too near, but it&rsquo;s flexitime (core hours style) so I could avoid the rush hour. I will hopefully be invited back for a technical interview next week. This bit I&rsquo;m really nervous about, I&rsquo;m going to be quizzed by a guy who is, by the sounds of it, a very serious computer scientist. I already have a lot of respect for him and I hope that my knowledge will be sufficient to convince him that I&rsquo;m a good guy to hire. First I have to convince myself and I will be revising textbooks until then!</p>
<p>I pretty much completed my shopping cart although it has not gone live. I have also fairly much finished the allocated time budget for the email marketing software I&rsquo;m building. I even wrote a <code>man</code> page for it! I know <code>man</code> is a bit out of date, but when you&rsquo;re using a command line app, why not have a command line documentation system? I will make HTML versions as well.</p>
<p>In the interim period between today and my last post I also carried out my first usability test, which was an interesting experience. I got a lot of feedback and we&rsquo;re having an interesting time making head and tail of the info. Thank you, Steve Krug. Krug is the author of a usability book that I was able to read in a few days and the man who&rsquo;s wisdom powered my testing session. I think I gained a lot from talking to people and I think it&rsquo;s a good idea to do it more regularly. It&rsquo;s very easy to get warm and cosy in the up-to-date browser and skills ivory tower when my users are muddling through down on the ground. People of technical skill really do use the web very differently.</p>
