---
layout: post
title: '606660606'
date: '2003-06-21T18:52:02+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47973111594/606660606
---
<p>Ah yes, Jungle Chaos at the ICA. After meetings, food and buying <a href="http://www.koyaanisqatsi.org/">Koyaanisqatsi and Powaqqatsi</a> on DVD, Louise and I went to the second live night of the Cybersonica festival, featuring DJ Rupture, The Bug and Kid 606.</p>
<p>We missed Rupture sadly, though some guys I was chatting to said he was good. The Bug was quite ragga actually. A little unexpected, but quite nice. 606 was mash up. He played the expected crazy set with quite a long gabba interlude and some serious jungle mash up midway through. It was a little bit spoilt by his playing a crap downbeat number for the last track and then just running off stage when his set ended. All in all, OK, it was nice to get out definitely.</p>
<p>This morning we were woken up by the arrival of the new Harry Potter for Louise and Hacking the Xbox for me. Woo, books! I finished Blondie24 last night, so the timing couldn&rsquo;t be better. Sadly, Rich blew the ending of Harry Potter on Hype, breaking our usual spoiler decorum. Louise is very pissed off about it in addition she didn&rsquo;t sleep after the post arrived and is currently catching up.</p>
<p>Hacking the Xbox was self-published by it&rsquo;s author Andrew &ldquo;Bunnie&rdquo; Huang because his signed publisher, Wiley, got cold feet, worried by Microsoft&rsquo;s might and the provisions of the DMCA. It contains a long chapter written by Lee Tien on the implications of the controversial DMCA. It has a lot of information about the science of reverse engineering and learning the tools and skills you&rsquo;ll need to apply that information in a hardware context, specifically the Xbox here (&ldquo;Thinking Inside The Box&rdquo;). It also has a series of interviews with master hackers. It looks great and I&rsquo;m really looking forward to reading it. It&rsquo;s not all Xbox centric, but at some point I hope to ply one out of the hands of one of my box-owning friends. I&rsquo;m prepared to wait until it&rsquo;s outdated though.</p>
