---
layout: post
title: It's wierd
date: '2001-08-23T17:54:00+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/48058197087/its-wierd
---
<p>How people love the shroud of anonimity that the internet affords them so much. It gives them the opportunity to step outside themselves and try something new. Like being a pervert. It definitely gives people a chance to live as the pervert inside. This mainly shows itself in email as far as I can see, although there is a shitload of nasty sites out there, it&rsquo;s just that email is much more infectious, viral.</p>
<p>But the same media that gets used to hide your real face is so public. I got reading some weblogs today. Most people use them exactly as you would assume they use their diary. Got up early, had a bath. Mom was buggin&rsquo; about me not cleaning the dog. That kind of thing. In the past these micro-memoirs would have been guarded with such secrecy, but now anyone in the world can read that Joyce from Berkeley&rsquo;s boyfriend has gone off to join the Navy (she&rsquo;s taking it quite well though). I just can&rsquo;t get into that kind of thing. I kept a diary for a bit when I was about seventeen, but the book I wrote in only had really small spaces, so I only wrote a little bit.</p>
<p>Now I&rsquo;ve got to thinking that there isn&rsquo;t much point having a weblog unless it&rsquo;s public, so I might go and publicise it. Not too much, I think I&rsquo;ll just post the link to Google. Then again, the stuff that I have written here is kind of disparate and, I suspect, not very interesting. What I found interesting about the blogs I was reading today were the day to day &ldquo;Mom is mad at me&rdquo; bits, because they&rsquo;re clues about lifestyle in all these places in the world. Norwich is not interesting or uninteresting, it&rsquo;s just another place in the world. More than that, when it comes to weblogs, it&rsquo;s just another way of life in the world, different from the others. Weblogs are perhaps the one thing I have found that are as international and as Global Village-y as the internet is hyped to be. There&rsquo;s millions of them, all by everyday people, going about the little things. Time to head over to <a href="http://blogdex.media.mit.edu/">blogdex</a> again&hellip;</p>
<p>Also, Mat Denney lives in a Two Dimensional Pink Plastiverse.</p>
