---
layout: post
title: Ain't no stoppin'
date: '2002-07-11T09:29:57+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47973403846/aint-no-stoppin
---
<p><b>Hackfest 2002 continues</b>. This week I have been writing a C++ program that is a replacement for the ancient Unix command-line app <code>calendar</code>. It uses an XML config file which I&rsquo;m parsing with <a href="http://www.jclark.com/xml/expat.html">Expat</a>, although I may replace this with <a href="http://xml.apache.org/xerces-c/">Apache&rsquo;s Xerces</a>. I&rsquo;ve kind of got a bit lost on this one. It&rsquo;s basically functional, but very basic. I need to think more carefully about the algorithm used to process nodes. At the moment it&rsquo;s getting messy, but as long as I work to standardise the way I discover node context (SAX parsing here) I should be OK. Then it&rsquo;s just a case of calculating the right Unix timestamps and comparing them. It, like <code>calendar</code> will extrapolate information about repeating events based on what data you specify, so if you specify only a weekday, it will assume that your event runs all day and repeats weekly.</p>
<p>Also I have beautified <a href="/mail/">my mail page</a>. It is now bright pink. The background image invites the prospective emailer to consider both them and I as monotone pink buxom underwear models from the Sixties. I like it. Also the error messages have a certain pinned-on afterwards punkness about them. I&rsquo;d like to thank Mat Denney for the tracing inspiration on that one, &lsquo;cos it&rsquo;s TME creds-tastic, I only hope I haven&rsquo;t ripped you off too badly (I kept some texture!). BTW, spot the hidden Mac OS logo&hellip;</p>
<p>Once again I&rsquo;ve made use of my PHP form validation class. I have enhanced it&rsquo;s ability to generate natural English reports of errors by adding a whole bunch of class members which control the output sentences. This makes it a lot more useful. With the latest version you would probably want to use to_english even if you wanted a ungrammatical list. It is powerful enough and has the advantage that it will parse the error arrays itself rather than you having to write code. When I&rsquo;ve used it on a few more pages I&rsquo;ll release it. I keep meaning to make a /software/ area. In fact I need to put my CV up as well.</p>
