---
layout: post
title: A nice sunny Sunday
date: '2002-10-06T18:53:06+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47973380179/a-nice-sunny-sunday
---
<p>I just got out of the shower to find that the sun is shining rather nicely out on the balcony, so I&rsquo;m sitting out here drying and downloading Illustrator. You got to love long network cables. Although I would rather be airporting it, the cable is a much cheaper option.</p>
<p>Tullis came to stay last night, coming down at about seven or eight and has just left. It was nice to see him, I had hoped that he would be one of the first of the Norwich crew to make it down, given his road warrior spirit. He got a note on his car saying &ldquo;Not a parking space. Please do not park here.&rdquo; Which is strange because there seems to be cars parked out in the square pretty much constantly. I have no idea who or where it came from either and I&rsquo;d quite like to find out. I want to get a feel for everybody else here, make sure we&rsquo;re not aliens. Most people are pretty young, only two or three over 40 with the rest being about a third 20 somethings and two thirds thirty somethings I&rsquo;d say. It&rsquo;s a nice split. The people below us look reasonably young which hopefully means they won&rsquo;t have a go at us for rinsing the bass. The Resident&rsquo;s Association is a name that looms on signs but nothing else. We have not been contacted and have no way of contacting them, except via the landlady perhaps. I&rsquo;d like to know what it is they do and how they feel about us really.</p>
<p>Dan, Nikki and JC have all been round as well. Dan has been here on and off since about Thursday I think. JC is like our nearest neighbour, so we should be seeing a lot of him. He was explaining the travelcard situation to me. Given that I can use it on a bus as well it seems like a much better idea than previously thought. It is quite expensive, weighing in at 77 <i>a month</i>.</p>
<p>I&rsquo;m starting to be able to recognise planes from their silhouettes, although I&rsquo;m pretty much guessing! Last night I saw a plane with it&rsquo;s headlights on. I didn&rsquo;t even know they had them but it&rsquo;s a fucking cool sight. I highly recommend you come and check it out :-)</p>
<p>Oh yeah, our local offy, whilst not serving a particularly hot range of beers, does have a nice cold meat selection and some good cheese — better than Sainsbury&rsquo;s in Norwich. It&rsquo;s a testament to the posh level of the area. From what I have gathered from JC it&rsquo;s a pretty swanky area and I see no evidence to dispute that. But then what can I say, I&rsquo;m sat on my balcony with my laptop blogging in the sun. I&rsquo;m trying to learn a bit more about the various bits of London as it&rsquo;s all pretty much a mystery to me. North, South, it seems they all have their good and bad characteristics. I&rsquo;ll just have to go and check them all out. Louise is up in Soho today for a meeting for Raindance, a film festival where she&rsquo;s going to be helping out with admin stuff. I&rsquo;m looking forward to getting my ass over there too and reminding myself why I have upped-sticks so dramatically.</p>
<p>So far, I&rsquo;m really enjoying the great adventure. The prices are high, but everything&rsquo;s cool.</p>
