---
layout: post
title: mod_perl
date: '2003-10-02T06:58:59+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47972977004/modperl
---
<p>I&rsquo;ve got a job coming up where I&rsquo;ll be writing a bunch of Perl. I had a look at the response of the web server I&rsquo;ll be running on and found that it&rsquo;s running mod_perl. Ooh I thought, I&rsquo;ll go and have a look at that and see what it looks like.</p>
<p>What I found is a tutorial that tells you at great length that you will fall on your arse if you dare to use closures, or destructive subroutines in any way.</p>
<p>Duh!</p>
<p>Closures are interesting, I never really use them. Destructive functions however: that way leads pain. Welcome to the functional age, coders! By functional, I don&rsquo;t just refer to Lisp et al, I mean any code where a function is a black box.</p>
<p>Anyway, I just want to know how to write mod_perl programs that make pages. A <a href="http://perl.apache.org/docs/1.0/guide/porting.html">great long page</a> that tells me about the traps isn&rsquo;t actually very much use unless I&rsquo;m in one. This is often a problem with educators. They know the gotchas are more important, but they assume that their students have a large capacity to remember a block of knowledge that doesn&rsquo;t relate to anything else yet.</p>
<p>Once I&rsquo;ve written and run my first mod_perl script, I&rsquo;ll have a reference point. Then I will appreciate this advanced knowledge. But until it has something to link to, it&rsquo;s just a discussion on the nature of Perl, and therefore not what I need at all.</p>
<p>And I signed up for an exam to become a Sun certified J2SE programmer.</p>
