---
layout: post
title: Illness
date: '2003-03-14T04:21:52+00:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47973355642/illness
---
<p>I&rsquo;ve been ill for the last few days. Fairly hefty fever, headaches and very sore throat. On Tuesday I was actually laid up in bed all day! I don&rsquo;t get ill very often and find it very frustrating when I do, yesterday I spent most of the day moaning.</p>
<p>I am very lucky to have Louise around though, she took good care of me by prescribing a diet of only fruit and vegetables (mostly in the form of soup) and dosing me with vitamin C and Echinacea and the odd paracetamol so I could sleep. As a result I managed to do some stuff yesterday and today I am pretty much back to normal, although I still have the sore throat.</p>
<p>The illness couldn&rsquo;t have come at a worse time. I was strapped for time before going away anyway. The projects I have been working on have just had to be cut in functionality. I doubt the Arena4 site will launch as anything more than a super simple site. Although there will be time to add more whizziness after I get back from me &lsquo;olidays.</p>
<p>How much time will be resolved tomorrow, when I hopefully find out whether I will be joining the team at Lateral. I&rsquo;m still divided by whether I want to join them or not. I have resolved to take it if I feel the money is good enough, because I need money more than I need excitement at the moment. I can make my own excitement, but I have proved pretty solidly that I can&rsquo;t make my own money.</p>
<p>The irony of the Lateral position is that I was offered a large project for April that would give me some of the experience that I need to get myself into a middle-tier Java job, which is what I would be happier doing really. Thus if Lateral turn me down I will work through that project and hopefully get a &ldquo;proper&rdquo; programming job, not watered down with HTML or admin work, some time in June. We shall see&hellip;</p>
