---
layout: post
title: The opera
date: '2005-03-30T17:56:40+01:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: https://aftnn.org/post/47880496851/the-opera
---
<p>Louise and I took my youngest sister Nell to the opera last night for her 18 birthday. We went to <em>Madama Butterfly</em> at the <a href="http://www.royalopera.org/">Royal Opera House</a> in Covent Garden.</p>
<p>We got a bit dressed up. I only have my suit really, but Louise wore an impractical pink dress and a pair of heals from the 50s that belonged to her grandmother. Nell had a long embroidered coat. Shamefully I forgot my camera. The opera house itself has had a lot of money lavished on it recently and it is lovely inside. Its famous roof creates a lovely space which contains a bar and restaurant. The theatre itself is just as probably always was, but it&rsquo;s a fine space indeed.</p>
<p>Before I went I really wasn&rsquo;t sure whether I would like it or not. I&rsquo;m not a big theatre goer. I do like movies, but that&rsquo;s quite a different experience. I really enjoyed it. I found it to be very moving and engaging. I half expected to be bored and fidgety in my chair, but I wasn&rsquo;t, despite having no leg room afforded to my £45 seat.</p>
<p>The production values were pretty high. The first act was a bit slow, but the costumes were exquisite and that alone made it really watchable. The second act begins with the famous number. That had a really interesting effect of engaging me emotionally in a way I wasn&rsquo;t expecting, such was the power of the performance combined with the recognition. The singer playing the part of Madame Butterfly was really powerful and gave an amazing performance both in terms of traditional acting and the power and beauty of her voice. After that I was hooked and it got better and better. There&rsquo;s a duet between Madame Butterfly and her maid Suzuki, which was a glorious sound, their two voices resonating beautifully. The ending is punctuated with falling cherry blossoms.</p>
<p>It was the best live performance experience I can lay claim to. Very moving, exquisitely beautiful and honestly unforgettable.</p>
<p>Afterwards we ate at a little french restaurant on the corner down Drury Lane. They had a cheap set menu, but the restaurant was lovely and outside I watched the cabs driving through the rain. Quite a romantic sight when you&rsquo;re in the mood. I had to do some work when I got home (boo), but apart from that it was quite possibly the perfect evening.</p>
